---
layout: song
category: music
title: solo piano 20100807
tags: [piano, music, mp3, songwriting, improv]
tumblr_audio_file: http://www.tumblr.com/audio_file/920842837/tumblr_l6thqdQ3dt1qzo4ep
tumblr_url: http://t.yelyah.com/post/920842837
tumblr_date: Sat, 07 Aug 2010 23:56:00
tumblr_type: audio
tumblr_teaser: yelyah - "solo piano 20100807" piano improv
---
This is the sort of procrastinator I am.

The Nook I bought at Best Buy had some funky buttons right out of the box.

Today, I finally got a bee in my bonnet to take care of it and return it. I packaged the sucker up all lovely and such and then looked at the receipt.

#@$!#$!@#$

I was out of the 30 day return period.

I figured, I've gone to all this trouble, let's give it a shot anyway. Long story short, Best Buy accepted it as a return without any hassle, but they gave me store credit since I was out of the return window. The upside is that, all but $17 of the Nook had come from gift cards, so I probably would've gotten the gift card money back as a store credit anyhow.

So let's do a post mortem.

1. I procrastinate.
1. I grabbed the last Nook at my store when I bought mine, so there was no Nook with which to exchange it, had I taken care of it on day #1.
1. By the time there were some Nooks in stock, I was already starting to wonder if maybe I should just return the thing completely, since I was hardly using it.
1. I continued to hardly use it, which in turn, made it way too easy to forget when exactly I bought it, therefore meaning that I:
1. Missed the return window.

I might buy the Nook again. I might buy the Kindle 3. Right now, ebook readers seem to collect dust around me. I *should've* known better because I've borrowed an ebook reader from a local library 3 times now. I only ever really used it on that first time.

I thought the Nook would be different because I'd use it to browse tech docs on web pages, but in practice I hardly used it. Browsing on it was just not much fun compared to the snappier responses of non e-ink devices.

Granted, I will still say that I think part of what killed it for me an the Nook was the fact that my model was broken and definitely needed to be returned so I never made the effort to bond with it.

Yes, I said bond. That's why I'm an Apple user.
