---
layout: song
category: music
title: solo piano 20101101
tags: [music, mp3, songwriting, improv, piano]
tumblr_audio_file: http://www.tumblr.com/audio_file/1454614053/tumblr_lb7ww59KEm1qzo4ep
tumblr_url: http://t.yelyah.com/post/1454614053
tumblr_date: Mon, 01 Nov 2010 13:04:53
tumblr_teaser: yelyah - "solo piano 20101101" piano improv
---
Let's see, it's November 1st, which means several things:

* nanowrimo starts today. I haven't hit my word quota at all and also have no clue what I'm going to write about.

* I did my monthly weigh-in. Amazingly, my non-stop eating during rails rumble and continued junk-fest thereafter has added all of 3 pounds.

* I turned on the heat and will now stop wearing summer outfits (tshirt and shorts FTW). There was nothing magical about the 1st. I just wanted to see if I could make it to November without actively heating the house or wearing non-shorts.

* I'm attempting to drink 4 cups/32 ounces/~1 liter of water every morning. I'd say 98% of what I drink is water. Despite this, I'm still not actually drinking enough.

And it also means other things that have nothing to do with it being November 1st:

* I did a factory restore on my iphone last night. I've been having battery problems. They're not as bad as way-back-when, when I would literally get about 30-45 minutes of battery life (restore fixed it then), but it's obnoxious. For instance, I seem to randomly dropped a large percentage of battery *when it's not in use*. Sadly or not, it hasn't been frequent enough to get an idea of what might be causing it. I'm also having weirdness with it freaking out in the 10% range and completely dying, yet it will let me boot it up... and then die again. This happened again yesterday. It got to 11%. Died. I tried the following a few times before giving up on it: turn it on, it gets to lock screen, still shows 11%, immediately dies. Fun. I'm hoping the restore fixes this wonkiness.

* I jailbroke my ipad last night. I previously jailbroke an ipod touch 1g that ended up having a hardware problem (got crushed in my pocket when I took a nasty fall) and I hadn't jailbroken any of my ios devices since then. Yes, I am enjoying the benefits of jailbreaking, but it's starting to make it obvious to me that a full laptop is going to be the only real way to work on programming projects.
