---
layout: song
category: music
title: solo piano 20101203
tags: [music, mp3, songwriting, improv, piano, iphone, headphones, karaoke]
tumblr_audio_file: http://www.tumblr.com/audio_file/2084910485/tumblr_lcve1eM0Wf1qzo4ep
tumblr_url: http://t.yelyah.com/post/2084910485
tumblr_date: Fri, 03 Dec 2010 14:53:00
tumblr_type: audio
tumblr_teaser: yelyah - "solo piano 20101203" piano improv
---
TIL that the iphone headset has a TRRS connector.

(*Today I learned that the iphone headset has a Tip Ring Ring Sleeve connector.*)

I also learned that the [TRRS connector](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TRS_connector) is apparently incompatible with some (maybe all?) 1/8" (mini jack) to 1/4" headphone adapters.

## TRS/TRRS/WTF

As I *think* I now understand it, the (usually) black ring is not a *ring*, but a *conductor*. The (usually) silver "gap" between the 2 black conductors is the actual *ring* in this equation. That's how a standard 1/4" or 1/8" (mini jack) headphone is called a TRS when it has 2 ring-looking-thingies. And on iphone headsets that have 3 conductors, there's actually just the 2 rings, hence the TRRS, instead of TRRRS.

## Karaoke effect!!!

So, I got a pair of [IEMs (in-ear monitors)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-ear_monitor) and wanted to try them in the studio. My Mbox 2 has a 1/4" plug for headphones.

Plugging said IEMs into my 1/8" to 1/4" adapter resulted in a karaoke effect (duplicate signal in both headphones and the "center" channel is gone).

I tried a different adapter and instead just got the left channel only.

For the record, the Apple iphone headset resulted on karaoke on both adapters, but it leads me to wonder if there are *any* 1/8" to 1/4" adapters that are compatible with TRRS headsets.

## My fix

I found an 1/8" to 1/8" extension cable. That seems to have worked, though I'm not sure I'm getting a great signal since the extension cable is a little bit too big to properly  fit into the adapter.

So here's how it goes right:

1/8" TRRS --> 1/8" TRS --> 1/4" TRS

## So why karaoke

Seriously, someone explain it to me.

I know the process for recreating karaoke in audio software and I think I actually understand why it works that way, but I have no clue how it applies to headphones.

I've been getting the karaoke effect for *ages* by doing things like pulling headphones slightly out of the audio player's jack or by having crappy headphones that were shorting out. And now this with the TRRS to TRS thingy.

I don't get it.

## Getting the karaoke effect through software

And if you're really curious, here's how you can get the karaoke effect in any (most?) audio software.

* It starts with a stereo signal.

* Depending on your software, you may now need to "split" the channels apart so that you can do the following on *just* the left or right channel (doesn't matter which).

* Invert one of the channels.

* Convert to mono.

And my loose understanding is that by flipping (inverting) one of the waveforms, everything that *formerly* was identical on each side will now cancel each other out, effectively removing the "center" channel.

So apparently this is what's happening with faulty connections on headphones.

But how?
